    Synchronization

Physical Clocks, Logical Clocks
Synchronous Systems
Asynchronous Systems
   Distributed Process Synchronization
• Communication between processes in a distributed system can have
  unpredictable delays, processes can fail, messages may be lost.

• Synchronization in distributed systems is harder than in centralized
  systems because the need for distributed algorithms.

   Properties of distributed algorithms:


✓ The relevant information is scattered among multiple machines.
✓ Processes make decisions based only on locally available information.
✓ A single point of failure in the system should be avoided.
✓ No common clock or other precise global time source exists.
Challenge:

How to design schemes so that multiple systems can coordinate
or synchronize to solve problems efficiently?
                        Absence of global clock
No system-wide common clock (global clock)

Reasons:
  Suppose a global clock exists. Two different processes can observe the clock at
  different times due to unpredictable message delays. Hence two different instances in
  physical time may be perceived as a single instance in physical time.

  If each process has a local clock In a distributed system, each node has its own clock
  and each one of those clocks may run at a different rate or granularity due to
  technological limitations, which means they will drift apart from each other.

  Hence two different instances in physical time may be perceived as a single instance
  in physical time.

                                       Dept. of IT, Jadavpur University    23
          Impact of the absence of global time

• Scheduling of processes by an OS depends on the temporal order of
  process arrival.

• Difficult to design and debug distributed programs since it is difficult to
  reason about temporal order of events in distributed systems.

• Without a global clock, difficult to collect up-to-date information on the state
  of the entire system.




                                    Dept. of IT, Jadavpur University   24
Updating a replicated database and leaving it in an
                inconsistent state
